most of everyone would agree that if you
want to be successful here on YouTube
you have to pander to your audience it's
somewhat more depressing to reflect that
to a large extent if you want to be
successful in academia if you want to be
successful in life in many different
ways in many different contexts that
challenge also may involve pandering to
your audience no matter how well or
poorly you may understand that is his
desire and in my life the audience
concerned has always been left-wing I
have grown up surrounded by left-wing
people and indeed even communists
extremists on the left wing and my
experience on YouTube has been
surrounded by the left-wing growing up
in Toronto and coint University my
professors all the people who surrounded
me ah yeah they varied from socialist
union organizers to left-wing you know
women's liberation feminist rights type
people all the way out to communists and
left-wing anarchistic it's that work
there were not a lot of political
political moderates around and if there
were any conservatives they were hiding
in in some other departments somewhere
I'd never see them and again I didn't I
didn't major in architecture
I didn't major in Christian Studies or
something I didn't major in medicine I'm
sure there are other university
departments where people were more
moderate or even more conservative but
that was that was not my experience so
you know growing up kind of drowning in
left-wing influence and trying to tread
water and learn how to swim and learn
how to learn how to swim against that
currently define myself in contrast of
that it's then very strange as an old
man to come on YouTube and see a
situation see a scene where likewise you
know there's this predominant left-wing
audience I guess and people have to
cater to that audience
bluff tap and redundancy ahead now of
course meanwhile somewhere else on
YouTube there's a right-wing audience
that other people are pandering to I'm
aware of this but by the same token like
at my university my whole experience was
being surrounded by and inundated by
these left-wing extremists the fact that
somewhere else there is a Christian
University and there were many you know
where all the professor's are
conservative Christians and doing Bible
studies and this campaign that that
exists almost but it's not part of my
experience so it's not really relevant
to what we're discussing here but yes
elsewhere on some other university
campus people are pandering to
right-wing inclinations somewhere else
you're on YouTube there are YouTube
channels talking about the difficulties
of pandering to the right-wing audience
that's not experience that's not it's
not what I'm talking about here today so
look the controversy at the moment and
then the reflections that come out of
this controversy that are somewhat deep
and meaningful for me in my own life the
controversy the moment is this I notice
looking at mexi's YouTube channel so
Mexi she has been masquerading as a
left-wing communist extremists for years
now it's a masquerade that's gone on a
long long time and just four weeks ago
she made a video in which she came out
and admitted that she's not really such
a left-wing extremist as she has been
pretending to be all along so she's not
really comfortable with emulating Joseph
Stalin Mao Zedong Lenin she's not really
into the extremists armed rebellion and
for years she's been pretending that she
was and right away she gets an avalanche
of negative comments some of which I've
seen on-screen as text and some what she
just described in her own videos she
talks about the negative backlash she's
had when she's come out as being someone
who's not in favor of a violent
revolution for those of us the few of us
who really have a long memory who've
been on this platform for a long time
whether due to vegan activism or
whatever
their interest those of us with long
memories and long engagement can
remember a time when Mexi was a Buddhist
and she had YouTube videos up discussing
her Buddhist spirituality let's let's
pause here I can sympathize with her
struggle on many different levels and
sympathy is an analytical tool
I don't sympathize the people just for
the sake of wallowing in sentiment I
sympathize to understand situation I was
a tear about a Buddhist I was an
Orthodox Buddhist for many years and I
was a scholar of Buddhism for about 10
years and then I became an expert I
rejected their religion and what my own
way but Buddhism was a huge part of my
life so if smexy had sincerely been an
inherent to Buddhism then lost faith in
religion moved on that's one thing I
could sympathize with but on the other
hand what I think you're looking at here
instead is someone who was sincerely
involved in are sincerely interested in
Buddhism maybe only at a rudimentary
stage and she started pandering to this
left-wing audience on YouTube so the
Buddhist videos all mysteriously
disappeared that side of her life got
erased that's not the only thing it's
not that it was pruned in her creation
of this public image of herself as the
violent communist extremist
revolutionary she she used to be a vegan
activist who went to Thailand on
vacation and meant durianrider
in person face to face I don't know if
she also met freely but there were
photographs of her up on the internet
that she posted herself of her meeting
those people for going there and her
being a little bit more of a typical
hippy vegan YouTube activist who met
other vegan vegan youtubers vegan b-list
celebrities whatever you want to say
where she was playing that game in
chasing Klout that way and that's that's
true of some of the other would-be
radicals on her side and then just four
weeks ago after building up this you
know image of herself as a communist
extremist four years after pandering to
this left one audience for years just
about four weeks
ago she comes out in two myths that she
isn't really such an extremist after all
and right away she gets this huge
negative ration audience the number of
views on her most recent video from two
weeks ago is about half of the audience
in the video before that and this is a
very small fraction about a quarter of
her more successful videos from both
five months ago so her whole situation
is one I can sympathize with and it's
instructive in many ways I had a moment
you know sitting with my mom and my
grandmother so it's just the three of us
in the room nobody else and this was in
my grandmother's apartment or
condominium a very comfortable bourgeois
environment she had a leather couch
glass coffee table so on a nice view of
the window and we were talking about
politics of Asia I think this was right
during the period when I was preparing
to move from Canada to Asia and my
mother kind of out of the blue just said
something that's typical of diehard
communist extremists she just stated out
of the blue that she didn't see it as a
big deal at all for the government of
China to have murdered more than 1
million people in Tibet so we have three
generations here my grandmother my
mother and me and both myself and my
grandmother
we're just flabbergasted by this we're
just both like kind of stuttering and
still how can you possibly say what is
the matter and you know I don't know to
what extent you could say my mother was
sincerely used to keeping company with
people who would appreciate and reward
and reinforce that kind of behavior of
coming out and making excuses for mass
murder under communist dictatorships
these kinds of Comus regimes but there's
there's a public for that there's a
subculture that's doing that all the
time in a sense they're honing and
internalizing the profit
and repeating and performing inform one
another now this would be a shameful
behavior under any circumstances but
it's true that it is even more shameful
because this behavior happened in the
comfortable capitalist Democratic
bourgeois conditions of my grandmother's
apartment we're all sitting around
comfortably on leather couches with this
nice glass coffee table so on and so
forth
I mean one has to admit it would be at
least more pathetic if the same
statement about killing millions of
people justifying the murder of millions
people were made by someone hiding out
in a cave with a machine gun someone in
an active state of armed rebellion
against the government someone who was
hunting and being hunted this kind of
situation but nevertheless like if I
were hypothetically a journalist who
went into a cave in Vietnam or Laos and
met someone who held those views I would
still do my best to try to talk them out
of it so I said look you know I
understand you're here in this cave
there's this war going on maybe to you
right now it makes sense to murder
millions of people and to justify the
murder of millions of people but can't I
talk this through with you can't we
philosophizes about this can we talk
about this politically or personally I
would have you can't I make my efforts
try to help you to see that really
really you're profoundly wrong that
you've adopted a political view of the
world that's you know misleading and
ultimately evil mmm
but obviously Mexi so this youtuber
after some number of years of her
playing that game for being surrounded
by those people who were actively invoke
aliy endorsing and calling for mass
violence revolution mass murder here on
youtube were these things go uncensored
and unsuppressed while other ideologies
are censored and suppressed something
happened where she hit her limit
something happened that made her want to
stop pandering to her audience and I
feel like she's a case study not just in
the left-wing ideology itself but in the
air SATs ideology that so much of us so
many of us get drawn into in Pandurang
so I'm saying that pandering itself
becomes a kind of ideology that people
get committed to though five years ago
when my youtube channel was new when I
was busy with University classes in
Victoria Canada I remember I watch this
YouTube video it was Pao Simeon talking
to Ali Tabrizi they both had really big
successful YouTube channels at the time
and they were both considered very
handsome eligible bachelors handsome
available young men within the vegan
movement that significant numbers of
viewers on both and they did this staged
Q&A so it wasn't completely spontaneous
but they had questions sent in from
viewers and they you know they answered
them on camera and they got this
question that was just straight up a
prompt someone writing in to ask them do
you share the stereotypical left-wing
position on pornography and masturbation
asking them to make a statement against
pornography that pornography was evil
and Exploited its own and there was just
this awkward moment on camera where each
of them kind of looked at the other I
looked at the camera and weren't sure
what to say and my interpretation of
that was like this was the moment of
uncertainty where they were deciding
were they gonna tell the audience what
they knew the audience wanted to hear
were they gonna pander to the audience
or not I knew both of those guys
personally to a limited extent like
Palestinian I had a few messages back
and forth I knew Ali Tabrizi better I
don't think either one of those guys was
left-wing I don't think either one was
left-wing the hell honey means not a hot
shot but they both absolutely knew in
that moment what the piece wanted here
and the question is are you going to
pander to that audience yes or no and I
saw that moment of this weird awkward
split-second before and all they said
they said they've made a total
evasive non answer to this question I
remember you know I paused it I just sat
there and reflected and I thought that
is what I will never do you know that
that right there that moment I'm never
gonna Paris whatever is gonna happen
with this YouTube thing for me and I
know the commitment to keeping it real
it means that today I have a tiny
fraction of the audience I theoretically
could have you know you get a smaller
and smaller audience the realer and more
honesty far every time you're keeping it
real you're alienating people especially
in the peculiar political conditions of
this side of YouTube you know I mean
look sir just really brief digression on
that if I had to choose between voting
for Joe Biden and voting for Bernie
Sanders I would vote for Bernie Sanders
if I had to choose between Bernie
Sanders and Hillary Clinton I'd vote for
Bernie Sanders
so under spec I'm I'm far to the left in
some ways I'm left-of-center I'm just
not a communist I'm not a socialist I'm
not a communist I'm on the moderate left
right but just the unwillingness to
pander further even even within that
category
I don't pander to Bernie Sanders
supporters I read his book I have harsh
criticism of the book and what's wrong
with it the fact that I would vote for
Bernie Sanders rather than Joe Biden
doesn't mean that I only see the flaws
in Joe Biden and I don't see the flaws
and besides that I don't want to
critique you know for so you know the
commitment to keeping it real the
decision not to pander that is more
fatal if you like it's more fateful I
should say it's more of a fateful
decision than your commitment to any one
political ideology so that's that's
maybe the lesson of YouTube the greatest
riddle of YouTube that a lot of people
have yet to unravel if all you look at
is success on YouTube then all you're
gonna see is pandering but the more
meaningful path forward here is
precisely
keeping it real is
using the banner and you know I don't
make youtube videos for me I don't I
really do make them for the audience I
mean the example the the YouTube video I
put up today the YouTube video I put up
today it's a little bit philosophical
display the title Jaclyn Glenn is worse
than an SEM do you video for today I'm
delighted that it has more thumbs down
than thumbs up I'm delighted for me to
see a video getting more than 50% thumbs
down I think oh good I'm really
challenging people I'm reaching the
audience you know people are seeing it
people are hearing it and they're being
challenged I'm not pander to the
audience good I'm saying something
that's meaningful to me but I'm not just
speaking to myself that video it's a
great example because obviously it's not
like just an example where it's like oh
wow I feel like talking about the
philosophy of Socrates or I feel like
talking about Aristotle or something
it's not something I'm making for myself
it's not something where I'm just
talking about my feeling is about my
divorce and my daughter or something
it's very much made for the audience but
it's not pandering Dynes it's refusing
the parents it's keeping it real and
it's challenging the audience and when
it gets more than 50% thumbs down I'm
thrilled I'm really positive of that
when I made the video I still think I'm
the only person to speak on that from
that angle okay the only person in
English there was a famous church in
Paris France that burnt down in an
accident the the notre-dame Cathedral in
Paris right and I came out that day I
came out and made a video than when the
news was fresh and I said look I'm not
trolling it was a hundred percent honest
I came up with a critique saying look it
may be an unpopular opinion but I'm an
atheist
I'm happy that it burnt down and I'm not
happy at the suggestion that the
government would use taxpayers dollars
to rebuild it or that the government any
involvement of rebuilding it if it's
gonna be rebuilt would be by donations
within the Catholic Church and even then
I want to question the long-term
morality of this I don't think it is a
good thing
arrests to be dominated by medieval
church I'm because it's a shockingly
unpopular opinion especially to come out
with it that day at that moment when the
tragedy is is new
I hate when everyone's just react that's
the first time to come on set and again
I'm happy to see it as thumbs down I
think it actually is more thumbs up and
thumbs down which is kind of amazing but
you know whatever even if that's 70%
thumbs down would be like good I don't
want to just reach the audience that
agrees with my opinion it's a really
good thing for me and a good thing for
the audience and a good thing for
YouTube if I can reach the people who
don't agree and even I mean you know the
decision that alienated the majority of
audience I mean one decision where I was
gonna keep it real talking about pet
ownership tell you what the fact that
morally I'm opposed to people owning
dogs morally I'm opposed to people on in
cats I'm opposed to people owning a pet
owl in a golden cage whatever it is
um I'm against pet ownership morally and
philosophically and I knew before I put
the video up that the majority of my
audience would walk away and hate me and
would send me hate mail I absolutely
knew that was the consequence and I did
it anyway I made that commitment to
keeping every reviewers for video went
way down got a ton of hate mail you know
what again that's the riddle of YouTube
that you're never gonna learn watching
only the most successful channels
alright there's a more meaningful kind
of success that goes on here that's
unique to this medium it never existed
before on radio it never existed before
on television it never existed before in
the movie theater what we do here on
YouTube there's no plot there's no
special effects right honesty is the
only currency we've got the only value
we can breathe into these videos
precisely begins and ends with that
commitment to authenticity to keeping it
real and that doesn't mean you may
videos for yourself you don't make the
news to please yourself
you make videos for an audience but you
also make videos to confront to educate
to challenge that audience that in short
is keeping it real